welcome everyone what I'm going to do is
I'm going to explain to you an extreme
green concept that was developed at
NASA's Glenn Research Center in
Cleveland Ohio but before I do that we
have to go over a definition of what
green is because a lot of us have a
different definition of it green the
product is created through
environmentally and socially conscious
means there's plenty of things that are
being called green now what does it
actually mean we use three metrics to
determine green the first metric is is
it sustainable which means are you
preserving what you're doing for future
use or for future generations
is it alternative is it different than
what's being used today or does it have
a lower carbon footprint than what's
used conventionally and three is it
renewable does it come from earth
natural replenishing resources such as
Sun wind and water now my task at NASA
is to develop the next generation of
aviation fuels extreme green why
aviation the field of aviation uses more
fuel than just about every other
combined we need to find an alternative
also it's a national aeronautics
directive one of the national
aeronautics goals is to develop the next
generation of fuels biofuels using
domestic and say friendly resources now
combating that challenge we have to also
meet the big three metric actually this
is a extreme game for us is all three
together that's why you see the plus day
I was told to say that all right so it
has to be the big three at GRC that's
another metric 97% of the world's water
is saltwater how about we use that
combine that with number three do not
use arable land because crops are
already growing on that land that's very
scarce around the world number two don't
compete with food crops that's already a
wellness
Tablas entity they don't need another
entry and lastly the most precious
resource we have on this earth is fresh
water
don't use fresh water if 97.5% in the
world's waters saltwater 2.5 percent is
fresh water less than 1/2 a percent of
that is accessible for human use but 60%
of population lives within that 1% so
combating my problem was now I have to
be extreme green and meet the big three
ladies and gentlemen welcome to the
green lab research facility
this is facility dedicated to the next
generation of aviation fuels using hallo
fights a hallo fight is a salt
tolerating plant most plants don't like
salt but halluf ice tolerate salt we
also are using weeds and we're also
using algae the good thing about our lab
is we've had 3,600 visitors in the last
two years why do you think that so
because we are onto something special so
in the lower you'll see the green lab
obviously in on a right hand side you'll
see algae if you are into the business
of the next generation of aviation fuels
algae is a viable option there's a lot
of funding right now and we have an
algae to fuels program there's two types
of algae grown one is a closed
photobioreactors that you see here and
what you see on the other side is our
species we use we're currently using a
species called Senna desmos die
amorphous our job at NASA is to take the
experimental and computational and make
a better mixing for the closed
photobioreactors
now the problem is closed
photobioreactors are they're quite
expensive they're automated and it's
very difficult to get them in large
scale so in large scale what do they use
we use open pond systems now around the
world they're growing algae with these
racetrack designs that you see here it
looks like an oval with a paddle wheel
it mixes really well but when it gets
around the last turn which I call turn
four its stagnant we actually have a
solution for that in the green lab in
our open pond system we do something
that happens in nature waves
we actually use wave technology in our
open pond systems we have 95% mixing and
our lipid content is higher than a
closed photobioreactors system which we
think is significant there is a drawback
to algae however it's very expensive is
there a way to produce algae
inexpensively an answer is yes we do the
same thing we do with hallo fights and
that is climatic adaptation in our green
lab we have six primary ecosystems that
range from fresh water all the way to
saltwater what we do we take a potential
species we start at fresh water we add a
little bit more salt when the second
tank here will be the same ecosystem as
Brazil right next to the sugarcane
fields you can have our plants the next
tank represents Africa the next tank
represents Arizona the next tank
represents Florida and the next tank
represents California or the open ocean
what we're trying to do is to come up
with a single species that could survive
anywhere in the world where there's
barren desert we're being very
successful so far
now here's one of the problems if you
are farmer you need five things to be
successful you need seeds you need soil
you need water and you need Sun and the
last thing that you need is fertilizer
most people use chemical fertilizers
well guess what we do not use chemical
fertilizers wait a second I just saw
lots of greenery in your green lab you
have to use fertilizer believe it or not
in our analysis of our salt water
ecosystems 80% of what we need are in
the tanks themselves the 20% that's
missing is nitrogen and phosphorus we
have a natural solution fish no we don't
cut up the fish and put them in their
fish waste is what we use as a matter of
fact we use freshwater mollies that
we've used our climatic adaptation
technique from freshwater all the way to
sea water fresh water mollies cheap they
loved and make babies
and they love to go to the bathroom and
the more they go to the bathroom the
more fertilizer we get the better off we
are
believe it or not it should be noted
that we use sand as our soil regular
beach sand fossilized coral all right so
a lot of people ask me how did you get
started well we got started and what we
call it indoor biofuels lab it's a
seedling lab we had 26 different species
of hallow fights and five are winners
what we do here is we actually it should
be called a death lab because we try to
kill the seedlings and make them run
rough then we come out to the green eye
what you see in the lower corner is a
wastewater treatment plant experiment
that we're growing a macro algae that
I'll talk about in a minute and lastly
it's me actually working in a lab to
prove to you I do work I don't just talk
about what I do all right here's the
plant species sallow cornea virginica
it's a wonderful plant I love that plan
everywhere we go we see it it's all over
the place from Maine all the way to
California
we love that plant second is Sal
akor-neb egg la vie very difficult to
get around the world it is a highest
lipid content that we have but it has a
shortcoming it's short now you take
European which is the largest or the
tallest plant that we have and what
we're trying to do with natural
selection or adaptive biology combine
all three to make a high growth high
lipid plant next when the Hurricanes
decimate the Delaware Bay soybean field
gone we came up with an idea can you
have a plant that has a land reclamation
A+ in Delaware and answer is yes it's
called seashore mallow cuts galaxies are
virginica say that five times if you
can't fat this is a 100% usable plant
the seeds biofuels the rest cattle feed
it's there for ten years is working very
well
now we get to Quetta Morpha
this is a macroalgae that loves excess
nutrients if you're in the crime
industry you know we use it the cleanup
dirty tanks this species is so
significant to us the properties are
very close to plastic we're trying right
now to convert this macro algae into a
bioplastic if we are successful we will
revolutionize the plastics industry so
we have a seed to fuel program we have
to do something with this biomass that
we have and so we do GC extraction and
lipid optimization so on and so forth
because our goal really is to come up
with the next generation of aviation
fuels aviation is a specific so on and
so forth
so so far we talked about water and fuel
but along the way we found out something
interesting about sallow cornea it's a
food product so we talked about ideas
worth spreading right how about this in
sub-saharan Africa next to the sea salt
water barren desert how about we take
that plant planet half use for food half
use for fuel we can make that happen
inexpensively you can see there's a
greenhouse in Germany that sells it as a
health food product this is harvested
and the middle here is a shrimp dish and
it's being pickled so I have to take a
joke
salad corn is known as sea beans salt
water asparagus and pickleweed so we're
pickling pickleweed
in the middle oh I thought it was funny
and the bottom is seaman's mustard it
doesn't make sense this is a logical
snack you have mustard your semen you
see a hallow fight you mix it together
it's a great snack with some crackers
all right and last garlic with solid
cornea which is what I like all right so
water fuel and food
none of this is possible without the
green lab team just like the Miami Heat
has the big three we have the big three
at NASA GRC that's myself professor Bob
Hendricks was our fearless leader and
dr. Arne on shake the backbone of the
green lab students over the last two
years we've had 35 different students
from around the world working in the
green lab as a matter of fact my
division chief says a lot you have a
green University I was like I'm okay
with that
because we are nurturing the next
generation of extreme green thinkers
which is significant so in first summary
I presented to you what we think is a
global solution for food fuel and water
there's something missing to be complete
clearly we use electricity we have a
solution for you
we're using clean energy sources here so
we have two wind turbines connected to
the green land we have four or five more
hopefully coming soon we also are using
something that's quite interesting there
is a solar array field at NASA's Glenn
Research Center hasn't been used for 15
years along with some of my electrical
engineering colleagues we realize that
they're still viable
so we're refurbishing them right now in
about 30 days or so we'll be connected
to the green lab and the reason why you
see red red and yellow there's a lot of
people think NASA employees don't work
on Saturday this is a picture taken on
Saturday there are no cars around but
you see my truck in yellow so I work on
Saturday this has proved to you that I'm
working because we do what it takes to
get the job done most people know that
here's a concept with this we're using
the green lab for a micro grid testbed
for the smart grid concept in Ohio we
have the ability to do that and I think
it's going to work so
green lab research facility a
self-sustainable renewable energy
ecosystem was presented today we really
really hope this concept catches on
worldwide we think we have a solution
for food water fuel and now energy
complete it's extreme green it's
sustainable alternative and renewable
and it meets the big three at GRC don't
use arable land don't compete with food
crops and most of all don't use fresh
water so I get a lot of questions about
what are you doing in that lab and I'll
usually say none of your business that's
what I'm doing in the lab and believe it
or not my number one goal for working on
this project is I want to help save the
world